how to rank your wordpress website on
google
wordpress is one of the easiest
platforms to optimize a website for
google rankings but it's also the
easiest to mess up if you don't know the
basics there's a huge amount of good seo
plugins to use and a lot of them are
free
but if you got a slow low performing
wordpress site
that's not that good and we're gonna fix
that so how do you go about keeping your
site performance at decent levels and
still manage to optimize for seo
before i give you an answer to that let
me tell you about my experience with
wordpress my website as you probably can
guess by this video is powered by
wordpress and i couldn't be happier with
that i'm attracting roughly 2.2 million
visitors a month just to my blog alone
my tool uber suggests gets even more
traffic and that's just directly from
google that's not even my total business
that's just my google traffic but look
if there's one thing i take more
seriously than doing seo itself it's
optimizing my site's performance and
you'll understand why in a moment
because that's so important i'm gonna
break down this video into two sections
one about what you can do that is
strictly seo and the other about how you
can optimize your site's performance so
let's talk about size performance the
first thing you need to keep in mind is
no one will stick around for many
seconds if you're unable to just get
your page to load i hate it when i'm on
a website it's like loading loading
loading loading so yeah get out of here
let me go to another site
and here's the thing google cares about
what makes users happy as long as people
find relevant results in their google
searches and then they get what they
want from the pages they see on google
it's all good for google google wants to
make sure that whatever appears in the
search results is going to create a nice
positive experience for users so at the
end of the day they'll smile
and then they'll keep coming back and
then clicking on those ads which makes
google money so if someone clicks on
your website from google their search
results and they have to wait five or
eight seconds to load that creates
friction
for that reason you'll have a hard time
ranking any website that is slow or has
less than ideal user experience that's
why i have a few tactics and plugins
that i use to help speed up my site
when it comes to who you're hosting with
make sure your website is on a fast
server you'll want either a dedicated
server or a managed wordpress hosting
solution a dedicated server gives you
complete dedicated resources in terms of
computer power and network bandwidth
that means you're not competing with
many other websites that are hosted on
the same server for that cpu and memory
usage so your performance will be much
higher than websites hosted on a shared
server
and i'm talking about 5-10 seconds
faster depending on the server that
you're talking about that's huge
now
you haven't even touched plugins yet add
that on you can even speed up your site
even more
and it doesn't matter what server you
have plugins will really help
the same goes with manage wordpress
hosting when you host your website with
managed web hosting services you have
the infrastructure that's designed for
maximum performance for your wordpress
site
they'll focus on all the technical
aspects involved in hosting and
maintaining your site so you don't have
to worry about anything just look at
companies like dreamhost they'll
optimize they'll move things around
they'll do their technical voodoo to
make sure that your site loads fast they
spend a lot of their time taking care of
service performance so the difference in
performance is also a big deal
now whether you're looking for a
dedicated server or managed hosting
let's say
whether it's stream host or wp engine or
whatever you decide to use you want to
check them out but you also want to make
sure that you use a few specific plugins
and i'm gonna break down some of these
plugins that will help you out with your
performance first cache and cdn cache
just make sure that the same page
doesn't have to keep loading for new
users and cdn is a content delivery
network that puts your files and you
know for your website all over the world
whether it's india or australia or uk so
no matter where people come and visit
your site from it loads fast
then another plugin i love is lazy
loading this way if you have tons of
images or video on a page when people
scroll you won't load up all the images
you'll wait till they scroll and then
load up the images because right when
someone loads your website why would you
load up 100 images they have even seen
all 100 yet let them see a few and then
load up more creates a much faster user
experience and there's one plugin
that'll help you with all these three
that i mentioned cache cdn and lazy
loading it's called w3 total cash and
best of all you can use it for free
another thing image compression if you
have heavy images that are large in file
size image compression will solve that
still make the images look beautiful and
crisp but they'll load super quickly a
cool plugin that does it for free
at least to a certain limit is
smush it so check that out
and i'm considering launching a
wordpress seo plugin that does image
compression and automates a few other
seo tasks for you and if that's
something that you'd like to check out
just leave a comment below and let me
know you want it because if enough of
you say it i'll go and create a free
plugin
now let's talk about the plugins that
you need to use in order to optimize
your
seo
with seo there's really just a basic
foundation that you need to focus on and
there's a lot of good plugins to help
you
before you make a decision as to which
plugin you'll end up using let me break
down a few things that are important for
you to consider first sitemap
gotta make sure the surgeons can crawl
your whole site sitemaps help then you
got basic on-page seo you want to make
sure things are bund up image seo
there's structured markup you gotta make
sure that you're controlling the robots
as well whether it's redirects or
excluding certain pages or files any
plugin that gives you access to these
capabilities will be a good fit for your
wordpress site but you're probably
looking for specific recommendations
you're like neil that's a generic list
what one should i use
well i would look into any one of these
three options as they're great rank math
yoast and all in one seo check out those
three